[TT-16831] docs: add OpenTelemetry metrics pages and restructure metrics section (#1808)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: api-management/traces/dynatrace.mdx

---
title: "Send Tyk Traces to Dynatrace"
description: "Step-by-step guide to connect Tyk Gateway distributed traces to Dynatrace using the OpenTelemetry Collector and Docker."
keywords: "Distributed Tracing, Dynatrace, OpenTelemetry, OTLP, OTel Collector, Tyk Gateway, APM, Observability"
sidebarTitle: "Dynatrace"
---

> This documentation covers how to set up Dynatrace to ingest OpenTelemetry traces via the OpenTelemetry Collector (OTel Collector) using Docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to set up Dynatrace to ingest OpenTelemetry traces via the OpenTelemetry Collector (OTel Collector) using Docker.
```

    extensions:
      health_check:
      pprof:
        endpoint: :1888
      zpages:
        endpoint: :55679
    service:
      extensions: [pprof, zpages, health_check]
      pipelines:
        traces:
          receivers: [otlp]
          processors: [batch]
          exporters: [otlphttp]
    ```

  2. **Docker Compose File**

      Create a file named docker-compose.yml.

      Here is the sample Docker Compose file:

    ```yaml expandable
    version: "3.9"
    services:
      otel-collector:
        image: otel/opentelemetry-collector:latest
        volumes:
          - ./configs/otel-collector-config.yml:/etc/otel-collector.yml
        command: ["--config=/etc/otel-collector.yml"]
        networks:
          - tyk
        ports:
          - "1888:1888" # pprof extension
          - "13133:13133" # health_check extension
          - "4317:4317" # OTLP gRPC receiver
          - "4318:4318" # OTLP http receiver
          - "55670:55679" # zpages extension
    networks:
      tyk:
    ```

### Step 3. Testing and Viewing Traces

  1. Launch the Docker containers: docker-compose up -d

  2. Initialize your Tyk environment.

>   3. Configure a basic HTTP API on the Tyk Gateway or Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. Deploy a simple HTTP API on your Tyk Gateway.
```

>   4. Use cURL or Postman to send requests to the API gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. Use cURL or Postman to send requests to the Gateway.
```

  5. Navigate to Dynatrace -> Services -> Tyk-Gateway.

      <img src="/img/distributed-tracing/opentelemetry/dynatrace-services.png" alt="Dynatrace Services" />

  6. Wait for 5 minutes and refresh.

  7. Traces, along with graphs, should appear. If they don't, click on the "Full Search" button.

      <img src="/img/distributed-tracing/opentelemetry/dynatrace-metrics.png" alt="Dynatrace Metrics" />

And there you have it! You've successfully integrated Dynatrace with the OpenTelemetry Collector using Docker.

## Troubleshooting

>     - If traces are not appearing, try clicking on the "Full Search" button after waiting for 5 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If traces are not appearing:
- try clicking on the "Full Search" button after waiting for 5 minutes.
```

>     Make sure your Dynatrace token is correct in the configuration files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure your Dynatrace token is correct in the configuration files.
```

>     - Validate the Docker Compose setup by checking the logs for any errors: `docker-compose logs`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Validate the Docker Compose setup by checking the logs for any errors: `docker-compose logs`
```
